                                                                      BIG DATA
                                                                 & AI SYSTEMS




      HTTP://DASLAB.SEAS.HARVARD.EDU/CLASSES/CS265/

                      CS 265 SYLLABUS
                    Prof: Stratos Idreos (stratos@seas.harvard.edu)




After taking CS265, you will be able to understand big data and AI system
 internals for LLMs, Machine Learning, and broad Data Science tasks, as
    well as have a handle on what it means to do CS systems research.




                                                                         1 of 17
                                                                      BIG DATA
                                                                 & AI SYSTEMS



WHAT IS THIS CLASS ABOUT?
Big data is everywhere. A fundamental goal across numerous modern
businesses and sciences is to be able to utilize as many machines as
possible, to consume as much information as possible and as fast as
possible. The big challenge is "how to turn data into useful knowledge
and actionable decisions". This is a moving target as both the underlying
hardware and our ability to collect data evolve. In this class, we will discuss how to
design systems (data structures and algorithms) for key data-driven areas,
including NoSQL, newSQL, LLMs, machine learning, RAG, Image AI, and neural
networks. We will see how they all rely on the same set of very basic concepts and we
will learn how to synthesize ef cient solutions for any problem across these areas using
those basic concepts.


      WHAT IS A DATA SYSTEM & WHAT IS AN AI SYSTEM?
      Data systems and AI systems are literally everywhere. We are using them
      directly or indirectly every day all day long for numerous basic or not so
      basic tasks, e.g., when we are buying coffee to when we are booking
      airplane tickets or training a neural network. They provide the backbone
      of all modern businesses to manage their data and decisions and of
      course they provide the backbone of online businesses and environments
      such as social networks and search engines. They are also used
      increasingly in science as data becomes more and more the fundamental
      enabler in generating knowledge.




              WHAT IS THIS CLASS NOT ABOUT?
               This class is not a traditional introduction on how we use a database
                systems, AI systems, and how to write SQL or Python code. Instead,
                  this is a systems class about system design. You will learn how big
                    data and AI systems work at their core and how to design new
                     systems for emerging data-driven applications and hardware. By
                     the way, if you know how systems work, you also become better at
                    using them!




                                                                                 2 of 17
                fi
                                                                           BIG DATA
                                                                      & AI SYSTEMS

WHY TAKE THIS CLASS?
Data is everywhere. Every year we create even more data. As it stands, every two days
we create as much data as much we created from the dawn of humanity up to
2003 [Eric Schmidt, Google]. Sciences, businesses, and everyday life are substantially
affected. Data systems are in the middle of all this. Data systems are how we store and
access data, i.e., they are the backbone of any data-driven application. It is a $100B
industry, growing 10% every year [Economist, “Data, data everywhere”].

At the same time, systems research and the whole industry are undergoing a major,
ongoing transition; as new data-driven scenarios and applications emerge, there is a
constant need to rede ne what constitutes good system design in such a dynamic
environment.

               CS265 exposes students to the core internals of data & AI systems,
               enabling them to understand key trends in system design and become
               among the few who can design and evaluate systems. In addition, due
               to the way the course is taught (focus on interactive problem solving,
               open topics, and the latest research results), this is also a great class
               for those who want to understand what CS research is all about and
               how to engage in doing research.


WHAT IS THE EXPECTED LEARNING OUTCOME?
1. Learn state-of-the-art research and industry trends in big data & AI systems.
2. Understand the tradeoffs in designing and implementing modern systems.
3. Be able to make design decisions in big data-driven scenarios.
4. Understand the fundamental principles that govern all systems and how these
   apply across diverse areas:NoSQL, LLMs, Neural Networks, Data Science, Vision.
5. Develop basic research skills: reading, writing, and understanding research
   papers.
6. Deepen C programming, debugging, and performance pro ling skills.


                    (here is where all the magic happens!)




                     system kernel




                                                  cs165/265 student
                                                                                 3 of 17
         fi
                                             fi
                                                                              BIG DATA
                                                                         & AI SYSTEMS




     CLASS PHILOSOPHY
     CS265 has unlimited of ce hours, relies on the latest research papers instead of a
     standard textbook, lectures are based on interaction and discussion instead of just
     “lecturing”, many of the quizzes and problem sets are actually open research
     problems, and most of all, it is fun! The instructor and the TFs are here to help you
     every day and at all times throughout the semester. You may request as many meetings
     as you like and as much help as you want.

     The course is also geared toward engaging students in creative thinking and problem-
     solving to give them a sense of how computer science research takes place. Many of
     our students have successfully conducted research projects with DASlab and
     published papers.

                     HOW DOES 265 COMPARE TO 165?
     If you took and liked CS165, you will like CS265 as well. From a content standpoint,
     CS265 builds on CS165 by covering additional topics, with a focus on AI. In terms of
     how the class is taught, it is even more interactive and research-oriented. Semester
     projects focus on open research problems with the potential to lead to publication, and
     every class is focused on a single research paper and its detailed understanding.

     HOW MUCH WORK IS IT?
     You may have heard stories about CS165 and are wondering whether CS265 will be
     equally hard, or you may have taken CS165 and are wondering whether this will be a
     similar amount of work. CS165 and CS265 are different styles of classes. While CS165
     is much more focused on implementation, leading to a full system prototype, CS265 is
     more focused on ideas and design. In other words, you may have written 5-10K lines of
     code (some even more!) for CS165 but in CS265 you are more likely going to write
     small amounts of code and mostly play with alternative ways to design a speci c
     functionality, structure or algorithm or model to highlight the effect of different choices
     and to nd out new ways to solve a speci c problem.


                                                                                        4 of 17
fi
                fi
                                 fi
                                                                               fi
                                                                        BIG DATA
                                                                   & AI SYSTEMS
LECTURES
The class meets twice a week.


                                    INTERACTION IN EVERY CLASS
                                    While the instructor will give a few lectures
                                    throughout the semester, the class will be primarily
                                    discussion-based. Think of this as an extended
                                    brainstorming session, a round table discussion
                                    about a speci c problem in each class. The goal is
                                    to maximize interaction.

                                    Our discussion will aim to highlight design trends
                                    and trade-offs, as well as algorithmic issues.
                                    Another signi cant part of our discussions will
                                    focus on examining open problems and
                                    highlighting opportunities for innovation.

                                     At the very beginning of the semester, the instructor
will do 4-5 lectures to provide the necessary background. After that, each class will be
based on a student presentation about a recent research paper, which will work as a
trigger for the day’s brainstorming. Depending on the class's needs, the instructor will
give additional lectures during class time or during our extra research sessions.




OFFICE HOURS & LABS
Interaction does not stop at lecture time. CS265 is designed to maximize interaction, as
we truly believe this is the best way to learn; we offer daily of ce hours and labs.

Starting Week 1, Prof. Idreos will hold of ce hours during the week, and additional OH
will be offered periodically during the weekend. Labs are offered by the TFs. Rooms
and slots: TBA on the class website. The goal of labs is to get hands-on help for the
projects (coding). Bring your laptop and any questions about speci c parts of the
project you need help with. Labs are the place to go when you have a persistent bug,
when you need help with a speci c tool for the project (e.g., for debugging or
performance testing), or to get feedback about the quality of your coding.




                                                                                  5 of 17
fi
     fi
                        fi
                             fi
                                                fi
                                                           fi
                                                                                BIG DATA
                                                                           & AI SYSTEMS

          CLASS RECORDINGS
          All classes and interactive sessions will be recorded and available online. Even if you
          miss a class, it will be easy to catch up, and you can use these recordings to review
          speci c material throughout the semester (e.g., to prepare for midterms).



          SECTIONS
          Another component of the course is sections. Sections
          are used to deliver material about the class, i.e., to go
          more deeply into some of the concepts discussed in
          class, to do additional quizzes, or to deliver background
          material that is needed to follow next week’s class or for
          the project. There will be no actual section meeting.
          Instead, all sections will be recorded by the teaching
          staff, and videos will be posted online. The material
          posted will be tailored to provide a step-by-step guide for
          each topic, making it easy to follow without being
          physically present in the section. However, if there are still
          questions about the material presented in the sections, you can ask them during the
          daily of ce hours or in labs.




                                            RESEARCH SESSIONS
                                            Throughout the semester, on select days, the
                                            instructor and DASlab PhDs and postdocs will
                                            discuss research! First, DASlab researchers will
                                            present their recent work in data systems and
                                            connect it to the material you are learning in class.
                                            Then you will have the chance to talk with them
                                            about their research and open problems, and to
                                            learn about open research opportunities. Snacks
                                            and drinks will be provided.




                                                                                          6 of 17
fi
     fi
                                                                                      BIG DATA
                                                                                 & AI SYSTEMS
          WEEKLY REVIEWS
          Each student will write two paper reviews per week. This
          prepares you for the class discussion. Reviews should be no
          more than two pages long.
          Each review should have text for at least the following 9 points:

          1)   what is the problem?
          2)   why is it important?
          3)   why is it hard?
          4)   why existing solutions do not work?
          5)   what is the core intuition for the solution?
          6)   does the paper prove its claims?
          7)   what is the setup of analysis/experiments? is it suf cient?
          8)   are there any gaps in the logic/proof?
          9)   describe at least one possible next step.

          Reviews are not required and are not graded. Their utility lies in preparing students for
          the class discussion.




                                                                               PRESENTATIONS
          Each student will do at least one paper presentation during the semester. Presentations
          should follow similar guidelines as the guidelines for reviews. There should be 1-2
          slides for each one of the nine core points in the review guidelines. In addition, there
          should be detailed slides that describe the core idea of the paper.

          Your slides should not be a multiple sheets of bullet lists - in fact try to avoid bullet lists
                  altogether - your slides should follow the generic formatting you will see in the
                      rst four lectures, that is: make slides as simple as possible - avoid text unless
                                 absolutely needed - no full phrases unless you need to give an
                                 exact de nition of something - use gures and visual examples, one
                                 slide one message=each slide should have a single goal that you
                              should be able to describe within a single phrase.

                             Your slides should be reviewed by the instructor at least 24 hours
                             before the class you are presenting. The nal deck of slides should
                         be available 30 minutes before class so we can upload online. You are
                         welcome to join for OH for help >>1 while you prepare your slides!




                                                                                                 7 of 17
fi
     fi
                                 fi
                                         fi
                                                 fi
                                                                           BIG DATA
                                                                      & AI SYSTEMS


     WHO CAN TAKE THIS CLASS?
     IF you have taken CS165, CS161, CS261
            GOTO next syllabus section;
     ELSE
            see below;

     Background: Naturally, the more background you have, the smoother your experience
     in 265 will be. Prior knowledge of C programming and systems programming, as well
     as a solid understanding of computer architecture, particularly the memory hierarchy
     (including cache memory), is essential for this class. Courses that provide a systems
     background (such as CS50 and, in particular, CS61 or equivalent) are essential. Good
     hacking, algorithm designing, and data structures skills are also required.

     If you are a graduate student and have taken a mix of systems (database, operating,
     and distributed systems) classes in the past, you will be OK, and we will provide
     enough background for you to follow. CS265 satis es the systems requirement for a
     PhD.

     If you are a senior in college and this is your last chance to take this class, if you
     have taken CS61 but no CS161 or CS165, then talk to the instructor to evaluate how t
     you are for the class. If you have not taken CS61 but do have signi cant systems
     programming experience, you may still qualify.

     In all other cases, you can take the class as the “systems track” instead of the
     “research track”. This simply means that you start with the systems project instead of
     the research project until you build enough systems background.




     HOW CAN I DO GREAT IN 265?
     Just utilize all resources provided. Show up in class to
     participate in interactive sessions. There are also daily
     of ce hours and labs; show up as often as possible so
     we can help with anything you need! When you nd
     yourself stuck with the project, either with a design
     decision or just a bug, it is normal to struggle for a
     while — it is part of the learning process — but after                      I got an
     some time, grab your laptop and come by!                                        A
                                                                                  in 265!




                                                                                            8 of 17
fi
                                            fi
                                            fi
                                                                 fi
                                                                            fi
                                                                           BIG DATA
                                                                      & AI SYSTEMS


     WHAT CAN I DO TO PREPEARE?
     Especially if you have not taken CS165, it is a good idea to spend some time preparing
     before the semester starts and during the early weeks of the semester, even if you
     consider yourself an expert systems student. The best approach is to browse some
     foundational readings on data systems architecture. We propose that you take a look at
     the following texts from the CS165 readings:

     1) Get familiar with the very basics of traditional database architectures:
     Architecture of a Database System. By J. Hellerstein, M. Stonebraker and J. Hamilton.
     Foundations and Trends in Databases, 2007

     2) Get familiar with very basics of modern database architectures:
     The Design and Implementation of Modern Column-store Database Systems. By D.
     Abadi, P. Boncz, S. Harizopoulos, S. Idreos, S. Madden. Foundations and Trends in
     Databases, 2013

     3) Get familiar with the very basics of modern large scale systems:
     Massively Parallel Databases and MapReduce Systems. By Shivnath Babu and
     Herodotos Herodotou. Foundations and Trends in Databases, 2013


     Test 0: We provide a Test 0 that is designed to 1) help you get an idea about how t
     you are for the class and 2) bootstrap your C coding skills. Essentially Test 0 consists
     of an independent data structure design and implementation in C that will allow you to
     practice basic system design, coding and debugging skills. In addition, several
     fundamental section videos are posted on the class website about system coding and
     pro ling to help you with that.




               GRADING
          • Class discussions: 30%
          • Paper presentation: 15%
          • Semester project: 45%
          • Midway check-in: 10%




                                                                                      9 of 17
fi
                                                                             fi
                                                                           BIG DATA
                                                                      & AI SYSTEMS

SEMESTER PROJECT
Each student completes a semester project. There are two kinds of semester projects:
1) a systems project, and
2) a research project.

Systems projects are tailored to provide background on state-of-the-art systems, data
structures, and algorithms. They include a design component and an implementation
component in C or C++, addressing low-level system issues such as memory
management, hardware-aware processing, parallel processing, read/write trade-offs,
and scalability.

The project descriptions can be found on the class website. Projects include building a
full NoSQL system and building a full LLM.

This is a focused project that, while it is not extremely heavy in terms of the amount of
code you have to write, will bring you up against basic modern system design issues
and trade-offs. We will upload a detailed description on the class website before the
beginning of the semester. Systems projects will be completed individually; each
student will work on their own project.

                  The research project, on the other hand, is much more tailored to design
                   and proof-of-concept implementations, aiming to solve open problems.
                   Research projects are tailored to give students a taste of research and to
                   lead to publications. When working on a research project, students will
                   work closely with the instructor and members of DASlab on the lab's
                       active research projects. Students will work in groups of three. Such
                         projects are mainly about thinking, reading, and writing, and much
                           less about coding, although proof-of-concept implementations will
           be our          end goal in some cases. Project descriptions are announced
           e v e r y     year within the rst 3 weeks of class but you can always check the
           latest publications of DASlab to see the most recent active research topics.




 Research projects will be offered to students who have taken CS165 in the past and to
those with a signi cant systems background (e.g., systems PhDs). This will be done in
consultation with the instructor.


Systems project can evolve into research projects throughout the semester for
students who progress fast and want to continue with research.



                                                                                    10 of 17
 fi
      fi
                                                                                 BIG DATA
                                                                            & AI SYSTEMS
          What is a successful project? For systems projects, we will specify the functionality
          and performance metrics you must achieve as part of the project description. For
          research projects, we will provide speci c questions you need to answer when we set
          up each project.

                                  Evaluation: There are no nals or midterms. At the end of the
                                  semester, each student will have a meeting with the instructor
                                    and another with the TFs, during which they will demonstrate
                                     their projects and answer design questions about them. [Tip:
                                     Past experience shows that frequent participation in of ce
                                     hours, brainstorming sessions, and sections means that the
                                    instructor and the TFs are very well aware of your system
                                    and your progress, which makes the nal evaluation a mere
                                    formality for these cases.]

          Collaboration policy: The systems project is an individual project. The nal
          deliverable should be personal; you must write all the code for your system from
          scratch, and all documentation and reports. Discussing the design and implementation
          problems with other students is allowed and encouraged! We will do so in class, during
          of ce hours, and during brainstorming sessions. Research projects will be in groups of
          three. As with the systems project, we encourage cross-team discussions, but
          ultimately each team should deliver a project that is clearly its own.

          Late days policy: All projects are due at the end of the semester, and this is when they
          will be graded. The more input you give us throughout the semester, the more we can
          help you learn. In the systems project description, you can nd a detailed time
          schedule that we propose you follow. Similarly, we will set up speci c timelines for each
          research project. All timelines are ideal plans, and you can adjust them to your
          schedule.



                 Note: Experience shows that each year, some students cannot handle the
                  freedom to self-pace and end up signi cantly deviating from the schedule. We
                    will send you frequent reminders, but please note that deviating from the
                     schedule by more than a couple of weeks will most likely mean you will not
                     be able to nish the whole project by the end of the semester (unless you
                     are an experienced systems student).


          Midway Check-in: The goal here is to demonstrate that you are having decent
          progress and mainly to avoid falling behind. By early March, each student working on a
          systems project should deliver 1) a design document and 2) one performance
          experiment that demonstrates an early result (10%). A template of the expected design
          document will be provided early in the semester.

                                                                                          11 of 17
fi
     fi
                       fi
                                   fi
                                        fi
                                             fi
                                                      fi
                                                               fi
                                                                    fi
                                                                                 fi
                                                                                          BIG DATA
                                                                                     & AI SYSTEMS




     FEEDBACK
     We welcome feedback and ideas about
     the course at any point during the
     semester. Just come and chat with us
     during of ce hours! Tell us how you are
     keeping up and how we can make it easier
     for you.




                           NO LAPTOP/PHONE POLICY
                         CS265 is based on interaction. We want students actively
                          participating in class and interactive sessions, asking and
                          answering questions to maximize learning. In each class, we will
                          bring a printed copy of the slides for each one of
                         the students so you can follow along and to keep
                        notes on paper. So you do not need your laptop
                     or phones for notes or looking up the slides online.
     In fact, recent studies show that even if you only use a laptop for
     note taking, it can have a negative impact on how well you
     understand the material in class1.

     [The Pen Is Mightier Than the Keyboard: Advantages of Longhand
     Over Laptop Note Taking. Pam A. Mueller and Daniel M. Oppenheimer.
     Psychological Science. 2014, Vol. 25(6) 1159–1168]




     1 There are cases where having a phone or laptop during class is necessary such as when you expect

     an important call or message or when you need the laptop to better follow the slides due to any issues
     with your eyes or ears. Just let the instructor know and all such cases will be granted permission to use
     any tools necessary.



                                                                                                     12 of 17
fi
                                                                        BIG DATA
                                                                   & AI SYSTEMS




GUEST LECTURES
Every semester we arrange a few guest lectures by leaders in data system design from
industry and academia. Past guest lecturers in our classes include: Guy Lohman from
IBM Research, Erietta Liarou from EPFL Lausanne, Alkis Simitsis and Georgia Koutrika
from HP Labs, Nikita Shamgunov from MemSQL, Laura Haas from IBM Research, Nga
Tran from Vertica, Jignesh Patel from University of Wisconsin, Johannes Gherke, from
Microsoft, Marcin Zukowski from Snow ake, Richard Hipp from SQLite, Ryan Johnson
from Logicblox.

You will get the opportunity to both attend a guest lecture and to actively participate in
discussions with our guest speakers.




            REQUIRED TEXTBOOK
            The class is about state-of-the-art data system design. There is no
            textbook for that. Thus, we use recent research papers and surveys, which
            will be posted on the course website, which you will have access to
            through the Harvard network.




                                                                                 13 of 17
                          fl
                                                                        BIG DATA
                                                                   & AI SYSTEMS




ONLINE DISCUSSIONS
We will use ED Discussions as a forum for online discussions. The links are posted on
the class website. You are welcome to post any questions that might help you better
understand the material or with the project. Anonymous posting (to other students) will
be enabled so that students feel more comfortable posting.

BASIC RULES: We have only a few basic rules to keep the forum functional and useful
for students while remaining manageable for staff.
1) We ask that you search the forum thoroughly before posting a question so we do
    not have duplicate entries.
2) Please make sure to stay on top of all staff posts (especially those that are pinned).
    Anything we post on the forum is considered “known”.
3) Do not use the forum to post code or ask for help with debugging. While it can work
    in some cases, debugging through messaging is a pain and time-consuming. We
    have labs every day. Bring your laptop, and we will help you on-site, or join
    remotely, and we will help you via a shared screen mode.
4) Do not use the forum for anything other than technical questions or questions about
    class logistics. If you want to discuss any concerns about your progress, t for the
    class, or anything else you should come to OH.




                                                                                14 of 17
                                                              fi
                                                                         BIG DATA
                                                                    & AI SYSTEMS


PLAGIARISM
You are responsible for understanding Harvard and Harvard Extension School policies
on academic integrity (www.extension.harvard.edu/resources-policies/student-
conduct/academic-integrity) and how to use sources responsibly. Not knowing the
rules, misunderstanding the rules, running out of time, submitting "the wrong draft", or
being overwhelmed with multiple demands are not acceptable excuses. There are no
excuses for failure to uphold academic integrity. To support your learning about
academic citation rules, please visit the Harvard Extension School Tips to Avoid
Plagiarism (www.extension.harvard.edu/resources-policies/resources/tips-avoid-
plagiarism), where you'll nd links to the Harvard Guide to Using Sources and two, free,
online 15-minute tutorials to test your knowledge of academic citation policy. The
tutorials are anonymous open-learning tools.

ACCESSIBILITY
Harvard and the Extension School are committed to providing an accessible academic
community. The Disability Services Of ce offers a variety of accommodations and
services to students with documented disabilities. Please visit
www.extension.harvard.edu/resources-policies/resources/disability-services-
accessibility for more information and do not hesitate to contact prof. Idreos directly, by
email, with any questions or concerns you might have.




                                                                                  15 of 17
           fi
                           fi
                                                                              BIG DATA
                                                                         & AI SYSTEMS
     EXTENSION SCHOOL
     This section supplements the basic syllabus with details speci c to extension school
     students.

     CS265 is a highly research-oriented course structured very differently from other
     classes, valuing and promoting critical thinking. For most students, this requires a
     transition phase. Please check the syllabus and requirements carefully before
     committing to this course.

     In addition, keep in mind that successfully completing this course will require
     participation in OH and Lab sessions. Even if they are not mandatory, they are critical
     for students to understand how to think about the material and how to design solutions.
     Especially if you do not have all the background described in the syllabus (i.e., if you
     have not taken a research-oriented systems course with a heavy systems project), you
     should budget time for frequent participation in both Labs and OH, as well as many
     hours of additional work each week, to build the foundations needed.

     Lecture: Lectures will be broadcast live. Lectures will also be available on demand
     within 24 hours after each class. Students can watch the live or recorded broadcast in
     their browser. The link to the CS265 broadcasts will be available on the Canvas website
     and will also be posted on the class website before the rst lecture.

     Participation: Extension school students will be able to participate live in classes,
     of ce hours, and labs via web-conference tools (we will use Zoom). The course staff
     will be online with Zoom during each session that is marked as “remote” and you will
     be able to actively interact with the staff. In addition to standard chat and call features,
     Zoom offers screen sharing, which you can use when you need help with speci c
     issues, such as debugging.

     Capturing Discussions: Given that a big portion of the class is based on interaction,
     extension school in cooperation with the class staff is always working to set-up a
     system with several microphones across the classroom so we can accurately and
     clearly capture brainstorming discussions and comments during class time.
     Microphones will “follow” the instructor.

     Grading: Although we encourage extension school students to take advantage of the
     opportunity to interact with staff and participate in live classes, we know that, for
     practical reasons, this will not be possible for all remote students. For this reason,
     extension school students will not receive a “class participation” grade. The rest of the
     course is exactly the same as what local students do.

     For this reason, the portion of the class participation grade (30%) will be distributed to
     other class components, and the nal grade breakdown is as follows: project (60%),



                                                                                        16 of 17
fi
                           fi
                                                 fi
                                                          fi
                                                                                fi
                                                                                   BIG DATA
                                                                              & AI SYSTEMS
          presentation (25%). The 15% for the midway check-in completes the grade distribution
          for the extension school.

          Discussion Forum: Given that remote students often have different needs due to
          distance, there is a separate forum tailored to extension schools. Look at the class
          website for the forum link for extension school students.

          Of ce Hours and Labs: Extension school OH and Labs are held remotely on
          weekends, which is typically more convenient for most students. In this way, we can
          have more exibility to accommodate students with day jobs who cannot attend during
          the week. The schedule will be posted at the beginning of the semester on the class
          website and the forum.

          Starting Date: Note that extension schools usually list the class start date as one day
          after the actual start date. In fact, this is when the rst video will be available. However,
          extension school students will still be able to stream the rst class live on the rst day
          of classes and participate as usual. Check the class website for the exact schedule if
          you want to participate live.




                                                                                             17 of 17
fi
     fl
                                                fi
                                                        fi
                                                                               fi
